README.md, before:

# LocaleManager

This library handles changing locale/language on the fly.

User interface direction will be updated automatically for right-to-left languages.

## Requirements

- Swift 4.0 or higher
- iOS 9.0
- XCode 9.0

## Installation

First you must clone this project from github:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/amosavian/LocaleManager
```

Then you can either install manually by adding `Sources/LocaleManager` directory to your project or create a `xcodeproj` file and add it as a dynamic framework:

```bash
swift package generate-xcodeproj
```

## Usage

### Initialization

First, Add this line to you AppDelegate class:

```swift
@UIApplicationMain
class AppDelegate: UIResponder, UIApplicationDelegate {

    func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplicationLaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
        // Your initialization code here
        
        LocaleManager.setup()
        return true
    }

}

```

### Show available localizations to user

Your app should provide localizations' list to user. You can fetch list of available localizations according to your project by:

```swift
let languages = LocaleManager.availableLocalizations
```

Now `languages` variable is a dictionary, If you don't have any localization, the dictionary will be `["Base": "Base"]`, all other localizations will be added after.

You must pass dictionary's key to `LocaleManager`'s methods, while dictionary values are localized name of corresponding key. E.g. "de" will be "German" for English environment while it will be "Deutsch" in German environment.

When user selected a localization, follow next step.

### Change localization on the fly

Nothing special here, just add following line:

```swift
let languageId = "fa"
LocaleManager.apply(identifier: languageId)
```

This will cause a flip animation while changing language. If you don't want that:

```swift
let languageId = "en"
LocaleManager.apply(identifier: languageId, animated: false)
```

To remove any custom localization and allow iOS to select a localization according system language:

```swift
LocaleManager.apply(identifier: nil)
```

### Get active locale

```swift
let locale = Locale.userPreferred // e.g "en_US"
print(locale.languageCode)  // e.g "en"
```

### Localizing numbers

Numbers won't be localized by default, to show localized numbers:

```swift
// Int
let n = 10
label.text = (n as NSNumber).localized()

// Double with 2 fraction
let d = 10.12
label.text = (n as NSNumber).localized(precision: 2)

// Percentage
let d = 0.5 // 50%
label.text = (n as NSNumber).localized(style: .percent)
```


### Formatted strings

Using `NSLocalizedString()` method you can fetch localized string from `Localizable.strings` file. In case the returned string is a formattable text, you can fill placeholders easily:

```swift
let completed = 10
let total = 15
let completedText = (completed as NSNumber).localized()
let totalText = = (total as NSNumber).localized()
let template = NSLocalizedString("Progress %@ out of %@ items", comment: "")
let formattedText = template.localizedFormat(completedText, totalText)
```

## Known issues

Check [Issues](issues) page.

## Contribute

We would love for you to contribute to FileProvider, check the LICENSE file for more info.

Commit message:

Adding storyboard note to readme

README.md, after:

# LocaleManager

This library handles changing locale/language on the fly.

User interface direction will be updated automatically for right-to-left languages.

## Requirements

- Swift 4.0 or higher
- iOS 9.0
- XCode 9.0

## Installation

First you must clone this project from github:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/amosavian/LocaleManager
```

Then you can either install manually by adding `Sources/LocaleManager` directory to your project or create a `xcodeproj` file and add it as a dynamic framework:

```bash
swift package generate-xcodeproj
```

## Usage

### Initialization

First, Add this line to you AppDelegate class:

```swift
@UIApplicationMain
class AppDelegate: UIResponder, UIApplicationDelegate {

    func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplicationLaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
        // Your initialization code here
        
        LocaleManager.setup()
        return true
    }

}

```

Second, you **must set** `Storyboard ID` for your root view controller in `Main.storyboard`.

### Show available localizations to user

Your app should provide localizations' list to user. You can fetch list of available localizations according to your project by:

```swift
let languages = LocaleManager.availableLocalizations
```

Now `languages` variable is a dictionary, If you don't have any localization, the dictionary will be `["Base": "Base"]`, all other localizations will be added after.

You must pass dictionary's key to `LocaleManager`'s methods, while dictionary values are localized name of corresponding key. E.g. "de" will be "German" for English environment while it will be "Deutsch" in German environment.

When user selected a localization, follow next step.

### Change localization on the fly

Nothing special here, just add following line:

```swift
let languageId = "fa"
LocaleManager.apply(identifier: languageId)
```

This will cause a flip animation while changing language. If you don't want that:

```swift
let languageId = "en"
LocaleManager.apply(identifier: languageId, animated: false)
```

To remove any custom localization and allow iOS to select a localization according system language:

```swift
LocaleManager.apply(identifier: nil)
```

### Get active locale

```swift
let locale = Locale.userPreferred // e.g "en_US"
print(locale.languageCode)  // e.g "en"
```

### Localizing numbers

Numbers won't be localized by default, to show localized numbers:

```swift
// Int
let n = 10
label.text = (n as NSNumber).localized()

// Double with 2 fraction
let d = 10.12
label.text = (n as NSNumber).localized(precision: 2)

// Percentage
let d = 0.5 // 50%
label.text = (n as NSNumber).localized(style: .percent)
```


### Formatted strings

Using `NSLocalizedString()` method you can fetch localized string from `Localizable.strings` file. In case the returned string is a formattable text, you can fill placeholders easily:

```swift
let completed = 10
let total = 15
let completedText = (completed as NSNumber).localized()
let totalText = = (total as NSNumber).localized()
let template = NSLocalizedString("Progress %@ out of %@ items", comment: "")
let formattedText = template.localizedFormat(completedText, totalText)
```

## Known issues

Check [Issues](issues) page.

## Contribute

We would love for you to contribute to FileProvider, check the LICENSE file for more info.
